print("""
Social and Ethical Issues in a Networked world

1)Reliability 
2)Integrity 
3)Security 
4)Privacy
5)Anonymity 
6)I.P
7)Authenticity
8)Digital Divide/ Equality of Access 
9)Surveillance 
10)Globalization & Cultural Diversity 
11)I.T. Policies 
12)Standards and protocls 
13)people and machines 
14)Digital Citizenship
15)Constant Exposure to Communication Technology 
16)The internet 
17)Gaming 
18)Developments of smartphones 
19)Over use of Mobile Devices

Type here: """)
answer = "empty"
userchoice = input ()

while(answer == "empty"):
  answer = "choosen"

if(userchoice == "1"):
  print("""refers to the hardware or software operating at an acceptable level, the accuracy of data or the correspondence of data with the real world. Data may be unreliable if it has been entered incorrectly or if it becomes outdated. The reliability of machines, software, and data determines our confidence in their value and use.""")
elif(userchoice == "2"):
  print("""refers to safeguarding the accuracy and completeness of stored data. Data lacks integrity when it has been changed accidentally or tampered with. Examples of data losing integrity are where information is duplicated in a relational database and only one copy is updated or where data entries have been maliciously altered. """)
elif(userchoice == "3"):
  print("""refers to the protection of hardware, software, machines and networks from unauthorized access. Security measures include restricted access to machines and networks for certain employees or to prevent access by hackers. The degree of security of information systems largely determines society’s confidence in the information contained in the systems.""")
elif(userchoice == "4"):
  print("""Privacy is the ability of individuals and groups to determine for themselves when, how and to what extent information about themselves is shared with others.""")
elif(userchoice == "5"):
  print(""" At its extreme, privacy becomes anonymity when, for instance, a person uses it to conceal his or her true identity in order to cyber-bully someone else. Conversely, excessive privacy could also conceal the perpetrators of criminal, terrorist or computer hacking acts from law enforcement agencies.""")
elif(userchoice == "6"):
  print("""includes ideas, discoveries, writings, works of art, software, collections and presentations of data. Copyright, trademarks and patents exist to protect intellectual property. However, the easy and accurate duplication methods made available through IT can undermine such protection.  """)
elif(userchoice == "7"):
  print("""means establishing a user’s identity beyond reasonable doubt. Authenticating the user is crucial in many scenarios, particularly in business and legal matters. A simple example of authentication is a user login to a network. A more advanced example would be the use of encrypted digital signatures in a business transaction or the use of watermarking on digital photographs.""")
elif(userchoice == "8"):
  print("""The growth of the use of IT systems has led to disparities in the use of, and access to, information technologies. Disparities exist not only internationally between countries, but also within countries between different socio-economic groups as well as within what may appear to be relatively homogenous groups. This may lead to groups or individuals without access to IT being disadvantaged. For example, while telelearning may bring previously unavailable opportunities to everyone’s doorstep, factors such as the cost and availability of hardware, software or access to the internet may create a “digital divide”. """)
elif(userchoice == "9"):
  print("""Policies often include some form, even if limited, of surveillance. this may be to protect general population, or if at a place fof business or school, may be to help protect and keep the network stable, or to ensure that the technology is being used appropriately. """)
elif(userchoice == "10"):
  print("""The growth of the use of IT systems has led to disparities in the use of, and access to, information technologies. Disparities exist not only internationally between countries, but also within countries between different socio-economic groups as well as within what may appear to be relatively homogenous groups. This may lead to groups or individuals without access to IT being disadvantaged. For example, while telelearning may bring previously unavailable opportunities to everyone’s doorstep, factors such as the cost and availability of hardware, software or access to the internet may create a “digital divide”.""")
elif(userchoice == "11"):
  print(""" are enforceable measures intended to promote appropriate and discourage inappropriate use relating to information technologies. They can be developed by governments, businesses, private groups or individuals. They normally consist of rules governing access to, or use of, information, hardware, software and networks. For example, a school policy on the use of IT would consist of each user signing an acceptable- use policy. It would also address unlawful access to the network through, for example, identity theft or using hacking software, and how these transgressions would be treated. Many websites also require users to agree to specific policies before allowing access to their services.

Policies also affect the exchange of information, for example, by making it subject to copyright laws and raising people’s awareness of plagiarism. In general, policies can promote or restrict access, guide behaviour, require the fulfillment of certain conditions prior to or during use, or need to be developed to address unforeseen issues such as cyber-bullying.
  """)
elif(userchoice == "12"):
  print("""are technical rules and conventions that enable compatibility and therefore facilitate communication or interoperability between different IT systems and their components. They might govern the design and use of hardware, software and information. For example, the communication protocols used on the internet, the ASCII representations for characters, or the design of the printer port on a personal computer are all governed by standards. """)
elif(userchoice == "13"):
  print("""The use of IT systems brings significant advantages, for instance in ease of use, being available 24/7, or through its use rather than exposing humans to a potentially hazardous environment. However, this can raise concerns about the rate at which technology is being introduced and issues that may arise from insufficient testing in critical situations such as air traffic control. The ultimate fear of many people is that future systems will be programmed to make decisions that would be better taken by humans, such as the decision to deploy nuclear weapons.

 """)
elif(userchoice == "14"):
  print("""can be defined as appropriate behaviour that represents the responsible, ethical and legal approach that individuals take in any situation with respect to the use of IT. Digital citizenship permeates, in one way or another, all of the preceding social and ethical considerations.""")
elif(userchoice == "15"):
  print("""Citizens better informed about the world, their community, friends, and family. However, there can be psychological impacts including stress, poor concentration, and short attention span. Additionally, this may also create additional obstacles to personal 1-to-1 relationships.""")
elif(userchoice == "16"):
  print("""Access to nearly immediate access to new tools, new ways to obtain information, new ways to share information. However, this can result in internet addiction, neglecting real life, and social media obsession""")
elif(userchoice == "17"):
  print("""Interactive medium capable of telling stories and providing intellectual stimulation. Also can improve hand-eye coordination. Users may have lower levels of concentration, sleep deprivation, social desensitization, addiction, and neglect real life and educational / personal development.""")
elif(userchoice == "18"):
  print("""Wide variety of uses is cheaper than the cost of buying devices that handle all the uses individually; gps, computer, internet, gaming platform, movies, camera, phone, etc. Smartphones have a continual increasing cost of the hardware, and the frequency at which they are replaced results in lots of e-waste.""")
elif(userchoice == "19"):
  print("""Easier communication with family. Easier communication in emergencies. However, can be an obstacle to in-person communication. Additionally, there may be possible health consequences, issues with addiction, and increased accidents due to a lack of awareness while in-use (car accidents for example).""")
